Added new kb article hierarchical-breadcrumb-dropdowns-blazor (#2215)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/hierarchical-breadcrumb-dropdowns-blazor.md

---
title: Hierarchical Breadcrumb in Blazor
description: Learn how to customize the Breadcrumb for Blazor by embedding dropdowns within Breadcrumb items to optimize user interaction and functionality.
type: how-to
page_title: Hierarchical Breadcrumb in Blazor
slug: hierarchical-breadcrumb-dropdowns-blazor
tags: breadcrumb, blazor, customization, dropdown, itemtemplate, hierarchical
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1652751
---

## Environment

| Product |
| --- |

> | Breadcrumb for Blazor |

Reviewer: Such a layout is correct, but is inconsistent with the rest of our KBs: https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/knowledge-base/chart-export-to-image

## Description

Incorporating custom components, such as dropdowns, within certain Breadcrumb "crumbs" can significantly enhance user interaction and functionality.

> This KB article also answers the following questions:

Reviewer: The previous sentence does not directly state the purpose of the KB article, so saying "This KB article also" may look a bit strange.

> - Is it possible to achieve a Breadcrumb hierarchical structure?

Reviewer: Avoid multi-adjective phrases when possible.
We use `*` for lists.

```suggestion
* Is it possible to achieve a hierarchical structure in the Breadcrumb component?
```

> - Is it possible to embed custom components within Breadcrumb crumbs?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Is it possible to embed custom components inside Breadcrumb crumbs?
```

> - How to use the `ItemTemplate` for adding dropdowns to Breadcrumb items?

Reviewer: Avoid gerund when possible.

```suggestion
- How to use the `ItemTemplate` to add dropdowns to Breadcrumb items?
```

## Solution

> To embed dropdowns within the Breadcrumb "crumbs", utilize the `ItemTemplate`. This template allows for the customization of Breadcrumb items, enabling the inclusion of complex components such as dropdowns.

Reviewer: * Link relevant docs resources in the instructions. It's easier for the reader to get more information from inline links, compared to "See Also" links that appear somewhere else. (It's fine to have the same links in the See Also section.)
* Use simpler sentence structure and wording.

```suggestion
To embed dropdowns in the Breadcrumb "crumbs", use an `ItemTemplate`. This template allows you to customize the Breadcrumb items, and include other components such as dropdowns.
```

<TelerikBreadcrumb Data="@Items">
    <ItemTemplate>
        @if (context.Items != null && context.Items.Any())
        {
            var values = new List<string> { context.Text }.Concat(context.Items.Select(x => x.Text));
            var value = context.SelectedChildren?.Text ?? context.Text;
            <TelerikDropDownList FillMode="@ThemeConstants.DropDownList.FillMode.Flat" 
                                 Data="@values" 
                                 Class="breadcrumb-ddl"
                                 Value="@value"
                                 ValueChanged="@((string value) => OnValueChanged(context, value))">
                <DropDownListSettings>
                    <DropDownListPopupSettings Height="auto" />
                </DropDownListSettings>
            </TelerikDropDownList>
        }
        else
        {
            <span>@context.Text</span>
        }
    </ItemTemplate>
</TelerikBreadcrumb>

<style>
    .breadcrumb-ddl {
        border-color: transparent !important;
    }

    .k-breadcrumb-link:hover:has(.k-dropdownlist) {
        text-decoration: none;
    }
</style>

@code {

>     private IEnumerable<BreadcrumbItem> Items = new List<BreadcrumbItem>();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    private IEnumerable<BreadcrumbItem> Items { get; set; } = new List<BreadcrumbItem>();
```

    private void OnValueChanged(BreadcrumbItem item, string value)
    {
        item.SelectedChildren = item.Items.FirstOrDefault(x => x.Text == value);
    }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        Items = new List<BreadcrumbItem>
        {
            new BreadcrumbItem { Text = "Telerik UI for Blazor" },
            new BreadcrumbItem { Text = "Components", Items = new List<BreadcrumbItem> { new BreadcrumbItem { Text = "AutoComplete" }, new BreadcrumbItem { Text = "Calendar" }, new BreadcrumbItem { Text = "Grid" } } },
            new BreadcrumbItem { Text = "Templates" },
        };
    }

    public class BreadcrumbItem
    {
        public string Text { get; set; }
        public List<BreadcrumbItem> Items { get; set; }
        public BreadcrumbItem SelectedChildren { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## See Also

> - [Breadcrumb Templates Documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/breadcrumb/templates#itemtemplate)
> - [DropDownList Documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/dropdownlist/overview)

Reviewer: Is there anything specific that the reader must see on the Overview page? If not, we can remove the second link.

```suggestion
* [Breadcrumb Templates](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/breadcrumb/templates#itemtemplate)
* [DropDownList Overview](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/dropdownlist/overview)
```
